

####Detector Methods

    


__constructor(haardata, Parallel)__
```javascript
new detector(haardata, Parallel);
```

__Explanation of parameters__

* _haardata_ : The actual haardata (as generated by haartojs tool), this is specific per feature, openCV haar data can be used.
* _Parallel_ : Optional, this is the _Parallel_ object, as returned by the _parallel.js_ script (included). It enables HAAR.js to run parallel computations both in browser and node (can be much faster)
    


__clearCache()__
```javascript
detector.clearCache();
```

Clear any cached image data and haardata in case space is an issue. Use image method and cascade method (see below) to re-set image and haar data
        


__cascade(haardata)__
```javascript
detector.cascade(haardata);
```

Allow to use same detector (with its cached image data), to detect different feature on same image, by using another cascade. This way any image pre-processing is done only once

__Explanation of parameters__

* _haardata_ : The actual haardata (as generated by haartojs tool), this is specific per feature, openCV haar data can be used.
        


__image(ImageOrVideoOrCanvas, scale, CanvasClass)__
```javascript
detector.image(ImageOrVideoOrCanvas, scale, CanvasClass);
```

__Explanation of parameters__

* _ImageOrVideoOrCanvas_ : an actual Image or Video element or Canvas Object (in this case they are equivalent).
* _scale_ : The percent of scaling from the original image, so detection proceeds faster on a smaller image (default __0.5__ ). __NOTE__ scaling might alter the detection results sometimes, if having problems opt towards 1 (slower)
* _CanvasClass_ : This is optional and used only when running in node (passing the node-canvas object).
        


__interval(detectionInterval)__
```javascript
detector.interval(detectionInterval);
```

__Explanation of parameters__

* _detectionInterval_ : interval to run the detection asynchronously (if not parallel) in  microseconds (default __30__).
        


__cannyThreshold({low: lowThreshold, high: highThreshold})__
```javascript
detector.cannyThreshold({low: lowThreshold, high: highThreshold});
```

Set the thresholds when Canny Pruning is used, for extra fine-tuning. 
Canny Pruning detects the number/density of edges in a given region. A region with too few or too many edges is unlikely to be a feature. 
Default values work fine in most cases, however depending on image size and the specific feature, some fine tuning could be needed

__Explanation of parameters__

* _low_ : (Optional) The low threshold (default __20__ ).
* _high_ : (Optional) The high threshold (default __100__ ).
        


__selection('auto'|object|feature|x [,y, width, height])__
```javascript
detector.selection('auto'|object|feature|x [,y, width, height]);
```

Allow to set a custom region in the image to confine the detection process only in that region (eg detect nose while face already detected)

__Explanation of parameters__

* _1st parameter_ : This can be the string 'auto' which sets the whole image as the selection, or an object ie: {x:10, y:'auto', width:100, height:'auto'} (every param set as 'auto' will take the default image value) or a detection rectangle/feature, or a x coordinate (along with rest coordinates).
* _y_ : (Optional) the selection start y coordinate, can be an actual value or 'auto' (y=0)
* _width_ : (Optional) the selection width, can be an actual value or 'auto' (width=image.width)
* _height_ : (Optional) the selection height, can be an actual value or 'auto' (height=image.height)

The actual selection rectangle/feature is available as this.Selection or detector.Selection
        


__complete(callback)__
```javascript
detector.complete(callback);
```

Set the callback handler when detection completes (for parallel and asynchronous detection)

__Explanation of parameters__

* _callback_ : The user-defined callback function (will be called within the detectors scope, the value of 'this' will be the detector instance).
        


__detect(baseScale, scale_inc, increment, min_neighbors, doCannyPruning)__
```javascript
detector.detect(baseScale, scale_inc, increment, min_neighbors, doCannyPruning);
```

__Explanation of parameters__ ([JViolaJones Parameters](http://code.google.com/p/jviolajones/wiki/Parameters))

* *baseScale* : The initial ratio between the window size and the Haar classifier size (default __1__ ).
* *scale_inc* : The scale increment of the window size, at each step (default __1.25__ ).
* *increment* : The shift of the window at each sub-step, in terms of percentage of the window size (default __0.5__ ).
* *min_neighbors* : The minimum numbers of similar rectangles needed for the region to be considered as a feature (avoid noise) (default __1__ )
* *doCannyPruning* : enable Canny Pruning to pre-detect regions unlikely to contain features, in order to speed up the execution (optional default __true__ ). 
        